README.md, before:

# WebGPU viewer for Gaussian Splatting nerfs

![Image](teaser-image.png)

This repository contains the source for an interactive web viewer of NeRFs crated with the code available from [INRIA](https://github.com/graphdeco-inria/gaussian-splatting). The app with instructions is hosted at [jatentaki.github.io](https://jatentaki.github.io/portfolio/gaussian-splatting/).

## Building
This project has been created using **webpack-cli**. Before the first build, go to the code directory and execute `npm install` to install dependencies.

Afterwards, you can use
```
npm run build
```
to bundle the application or 
```
npm run serve
```
to have a live-updating server.

## Architecture
Unlike the original paper, this code doesn't use computer shaders to compute each pixel value independently but instead maps the problem to a standard rasterization technique, where each Gaussian is a flat rectangle facing the camera, with the actual content drawn via a fragment shader. I found this approach to yield substantially better framerates than compute shaders, although both are available in WebGPU.

This was my first substantial webdev project, therefore the code is far from idiomatic. I'm happy to receive PRs both to improve performance and to clean up the codebase.

Commit message:

Add browser compatibility to README.md

README.md, after:

# WebGPU viewer for Gaussian Splatting nerfs

![Image](teaser-image.png)

This repository contains the source for an interactive web viewer of NeRFs crated with the code available from [INRIA](https://github.com/graphdeco-inria/gaussian-splatting). The app with instructions is hosted at [jatentaki.github.io](https://jatentaki.github.io/portfolio/gaussian-splatting/).

## Building
This project has been created using **webpack-cli**. Before the first build, go to the code directory and execute `npm install` to install dependencies.

Afterwards, you can use
```
npm run build
```
to bundle the application or 
```
npm run serve
```
to have a live-updating server.

## Browser compatibility
The official compatiblity table of WebGPU can be found [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebGPU_API#browser_compatibility). In practice, I have only succeeded in running it on MacOS and Ubuntu.

**MacOS**: works with recent (version 115+) Chrome/Chromium browsers.

**Ubuntu**: works with Chrome dev version and custom flags. The steps are as follows:
1. Download and install [Chrome dev](https://www.google.com/chrome/dev/).
2. Launch from command line with extra flags: `google-chrome-unstable --enable-features=Vulkan,UseSkiaRenderer`.
3. Go to `chrome://flags/#enable-unsafe-webgpu` and enable webgpu. Restart the browser for the change to take effect, make sure to use the flags from the previous step as well.
4. The Gaussian viewer should work.

**Windows**: recent Chrome is supposed to work (per implementation status) but in practice the renders are completely nonsensical. See [this tracking issue](https://github.com/cvlab-epfl/gaussian-splatting-web/issues/16).

**Firefox**: the nightly channel is supposed to support webGPU experimentally but in practice it fails on parsing my shaders across MacOS/Ubuntu.

> If you succeed with any other configuration or fail with the ones described above, please [open an issue](https://github.com/cvlab-epfl/gaussian-splatting-web/issues) and tell us.

## Architecture
Unlike the original paper, this code doesn't use computer shaders to compute each pixel value independently but instead maps the problem to a standard rasterization technique, where each Gaussian is a flat rectangle facing the camera, with the actual content drawn via a fragment shader. I found this approach to yield substantially better framerates than compute shaders, although both are available in WebGPU.

This was my first substantial webdev project, therefore the code is far from idiomatic. I'm happy to receive PRs both to improve performance and to clean up the codebase.
